# Abstract

The turn of the millennium saw significant shifts in British social security and employment policy for sick and disabled people. On the one hand, European and anti-discrimination laws gave individuals greater protections. On the other, active-labour-market policies from the in-coming Labour government restricted access to disability-related social security; while employers were becoming increasingly concerned with how to manage absenteeism as flexible and “lean” employment practices led businesses to become even more intolerant of employees taking sick leave. Web archives offer a useful window onto how British citizens understood these processes. Workers who directly experienced sickness systems left evidence of their opinions on blogs and message boards. But so too did middle managers, as well as friends and relatives of those who had to negotiate sickness-related bureaucracies.

This article combines evidence from the Internet Archive with journal articles, newspapers, and government procedural papers to show how New Labour’s sickness and disability policies fit within the longer history of the British welfare state. By adding archived web pages to the “traditional” sources in the writing of political, social, and cultural histories of Britain, it argues that new insights can be gained not just on how citizens experienced the welfare state but also how they understood changes relative to a remembered past.

Despite the richness of these sources, however, they must be read critically and with methodological care. The search techniques used here to access blogs and message boards provided many examples of citizen engagement with sickness systems on the .uk top-level domain. But these were necessarily a fraction of all utterances about sickness that would have been made at the time. Furthermore, while historical actors “published” their thoughts by volunteering information on the public internet, they had no reasonable expectation that their messages would be held for so long in an archive – or that they might realistically be read by a wide audience, mediated through an academic paper. At the very least, this paper discusses citizens’ writings about their experiences without informed consent. The article thus concludes with discussion of these methodological considerations and why it remains important to “triangulate” with non-web-archival evidence, especially for the early mass-web-usage period.

# Keywords

social security, welfare, Britain, Internet Archive, British Library, history of medicine